Beware of Pride:

Commanded to leave Jerusalem, the prophet Lehi journeyed with his family into the wilderness.  Imagine his delight to dream of finding life in the middle of a dark and dreary wasteland.  He saw a beautiful tree bearing a most white and delicious fruit.  He shouted for his family to join him and partake of this fruit.  He later shared this dream with his family.  His son Nephi understood that this dream had an important message. He prayed for greater understanding.  God opened the same vision to Nephi:(1 Nephi 11:8-13,18,20-23)

 8...And I looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which my father had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond, yea, exceeding of all beauty; and the whiteness thereof did exceed the whiteness of the driven snow.

 9 And it came to pass after I had seen the tree, I said unto the Spirit: I behold thou hast shown unto me the tree which is precious above all.

 10 And he said unto me: What desirest thou?

 11 And I said unto him: To know the interpretation thereof—for I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld that he was in the form of a man; yet nevertheless, I knew that it was the Spirit of the Lord; and he spake unto me as a man speaketh with another.

 12 And it came to pass that he said unto me: Look! And I looked as if to look upon him, and I saw him not; for he had gone from before my presence.

 13 And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city of Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city of Nazareth; and in the city of Nazareth I beheld a virgin, and she was exceedingly fair and white.
...
 18 And he said unto me: Behold, the virgin whom thou seest is the mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh.
...
 20 And I looked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a child in her arms.

 21 And the angel said unto me: Behold the Lamb of God, yea, even the Son of the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the meaning of the tree which thy father saw?

 22 And I answered him, saying: Yea, it is the love of God, which sheddeth itself abroad in the hearts of the children of men; wherefore, it is the most desirable above all things.

 23 And he spake unto me, saying: Yea, and the most joyous to the soul.

Lehi saw countless persons pressing towards the Tree of Life.  Some held onto an iron rod, which symbolized the word of God.  When mists of darkness  arose, those not holding onto this rod fell away into strange paths and were lost.  

Some who partook of the fruit of the Tree of Life became ashamed when they saw people mocking them from a great and spacious building.  

Brothers and sisters, this great and spacious building represents the pride of the world. Pride can leave our souls parched when we overlook the Waters of Life as a mere mirage.  Pride breeds a hatred towards God and man that Satan plants in our hearts whenever we disobey God.  Our unchecked desires, appetites, and passions can too easily drown us in sin. 

The prophet Ezra Taft Benson warned of pride. Said he :
<quote>
...Pride adversely affects all our relationships—our relationship with God and His servants, between husband and wife, parent and child, employer and employee, teacher and student, and all mankind. Our degree of pride determines how we treat our God and our brothers and sisters. Christ wants to lift us to where He is. Do we desire to do the same for others?
("Beware of Pride", April 1989 Ensign)
</quote>

God has revealed how we can conquer our pride through obedience:

34 And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. (D&C 88:34)

<quote>
“Every law God has given us is of such a nature that by keeping it, we are preserved, perfected and sanctified. If we keep the word of wisdom, our bodies will be kept pure. If we observe the law of tithing we shall learn to be unselfish and honest. If we pray, we shall hold communion with the holy spirit. If we try to do our duty in everything, we shall come day by day nearer to perfection. On the other hand, those who refuse to be governed by law and are a law unto themselves cannot be sanctified. They are outside the pale of mercy and justice and judgment as well as law and must remain filthy still. It is only when we try to obey God’s laws that we have claim upon His mercy. Justice will take into account in the judgment every honest effort to do the will of God.” (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Deseret Book Co., 1972, p. 546.)
(see the May 1976 Ensign talk "As a Man Soweth" by Elder L. Tom Perry) 
</quote>

Obedience to God  helps us understand His eternal government which is based upon adherence to eternal truth and the Rule of Law.

God is no respecter of persons as declared in the New Testament (Acts 10:34-35).  He does not exempt a bishop from paying tithing nor does He excuse a movie star for committing adultery.  We are all equal with respect to His eternal laws.

"Man is declared to have been in the beginning with the Father, possessed of an uncreated intelligence.  Man's agency and his ultimate acountability are based upon that fact." (Eternal Principles of Government: A Theological Approach - Ensign June 1976)

God's laws are invariable and timeless.  To think otherwise is to be mistaken about the application of such laws and the eternal truths upon which they are based.

The Rule of Law is simple to define. It is not an ad hoc Rule.

The story of Daniel illustrates the Rule of Law.  King Darius loved Daniel, but was tricked into passing a law forbidding anyone to petition any God or man other than himself for 30 days.  The punishment set for disobedience was a night in a den of lions.  When Daniel was caught praying, his enemies reminded King Darius that he was bound by the law to deliver Daniel to the lions' den (Daniel 6:15):

 15 "...Know, O King, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That no decree or statute which the king establisheth may be changed."

God honors those obedient to His laws.  He solemnly declares(D&C 82:10):

 10 I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise.

Obedience is a sure sign of humility.  Humility grows with gratitude.  Steven Densley recently shared a wonderful parable on gratitude in the Daily Herald:

<quote>
     According to a legend, a desert wanderer happened upon a spring of cool, crystal-clear water. The water was so delightful; he decided to bring the king a sample of it. Barely quenching his own thirst, he filled his leather canteen and began his lengthy journey in the hot desert sun to the palace. 
     When he finally reached his destination, the water had become stale because of the old leather container in which it had been stored. The king graciously accepted the gift of his faithful subject. He tasted it with an expression of gratitude and delight, and the wanderer went his way with a joyful heart.
     After he had gone, others in the king's court tasted the putrid water and asked why the king had pretended to enjoy it. "Ah," responded the king, "It was not the water I tasted, but the spirit in which it was given." (Steven Densley's Chamber Report, "Trying to live a perfect day", Utah Daily Herald 10/20/2011) 
</quote>   

Lehi's dream of the Tree of Life contains powerful imagery.  Modern revelation gives us further insight into how this tree represents not only God's love but his majesty as well (D&C 88:11-13):

 11 And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes, which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings;

 12 Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space—

 13 The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things.

Peter James and John witnessed this majesty when Jesus was transfigured before them and his face did shine as the sun and his raiment was as white as the light (Matthew 17:2).

The apostle John wrote(John 1:4-5):

 4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

 5 And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.

May we overcome that darkness which is pride and humbly step into God's light is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
