Sometimes a passage of scripture can better teach us when it is laid against the backdrop of similar scripture.  Such is the case with the story of young Samuel hearing the voice of the Lord in the temple.  It gathers more light when followed with the account of ancient Americans hearing the voice of God the Father announcing the coming of His Resurrected Son, Jesus Christ.  

 3 And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;

 4 That the Lord called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.

 5 And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.

 6 And the Lord called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.

 7 Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him.

 8 And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the Lord had called the child.

 9 Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

 10 And the Lord came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.

This pattern is repeated in the Book of Mormon where we read the following account:

3 And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center, insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.

 4 And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they understood it not.

 5 And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came.

 6 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them:

 7 Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.

Today I'd like to share some highlights from a wonderful talk by the apostle Russell M. Nelson entitled "Listen to Learn".  
Said he:

<quote>
Many articles in Church literature have dealt with the important art of listening. They support a proverb that teaches this vital lesson: “Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise.” (Prov. 19:20.) Surely wisdom will come as we listen to learn from children, parents, partners, neighbors, Church leaders, and the Lord.
...
Parents and teachers, learn to listen, then listen to learn from children. A wise father once said, “I do a greater amount of good when I listen to my children than when I talk to them.” 
...
Children of all ages, learn to listen, and listen to learn from parents... Spiritually or physically, it can be a matter of life and death.
</quote>

Elder Nelson shared the tragic story of a young lady who insisted on going to a particular dance despite her father's premonitions of danger.  The young man escorting her there consumed alchohol that evening. He lost control of their car on the drive home and it went through a guardrail into a reservoir.  They both drowned.

<quote>
Husbands and wives, learn to listen, and listen to learn from one another. I was amused to read of an experience recorded by Elder F. Burton Howard in his biography of President Marion G. Romney: “His good-humored love for Ida was manifested in many ways. He delighted in telling of her hearing loss. ‘I once went to see a doctor about her hearing,’ he would say. ‘He asked me how bad it was, and I said I didn’t know. He told me to go home and find out. The doctor instructed me to go into a far room and speak to her. Then I should move nearer and nearer until she does hear. Following the doctor’s instructions, I spoke to her from the bedroom while she was in the kitchen—no answer. I moved nearer and spoke again—no answer. So I went right up to the door of the kitchen and said, “Ida, can you hear me?” She responded, “What is it, Marion—I’ve answered you three times.”’” 8

Even with normal hearing, some couples seem not to listen to one another. Taking time to talk is essential to keep lines of communication intact...

Keeping the garden of marriage well cultivated and free from weeds of neglect requires the time and commitment of love...

Wise partners, listen to learn from one another.
</quote>

<quote>
Above all, God’s children should learn to listen, then listen to learn from the Lord. On several sacred occasions in the world’s history, our Heavenly Father has personally appeared to introduce His divine Son with a specific charge to “hear him.” 

Jesus taught this first and great commandment: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.” (Matt. 22:37.)
</quote>

The Lord isn't using flowery speech here! He is teaching us how to truly love!  And we do that by listening!  Listening with all our heart,  all our soul, and all our minds.  When we love the Lord and those created in his image then we turn off the t.v., close the laptop, put aside email and Facebook and give our children, our spouse, our parents and our fellow man our undivided attention when they have need of our ears!   

Dorothy Leeds wrote in her book "The 7 Powers of Questions" how true listening involves four organs: the ears, the eyes, the mind and the heart.  First we need to find a place conducive to good hearing, free from distractions and noise.  Then we need to focus our attention on the speaker.  Real conversation with another person involves an interaction of both eyes and ears, verbal and nonverbal language.  Your eyes can betray you.  Don't burn holes in the other person with your stare, but make contact every few seconds.  Lack of eye contact is the first clue that someone is not listening to what you have to say.  The mind plays a crucial role in listening, because it allows us to formulate questions that train our ears on what is relevant and meaningful.  Finally, we need to listen with our hearts to understand not only what is being said, but what is going on beneath the words."

In the Church of Jesus Christ, after we are baptized we are confirmed with the gift to receive the Holy Ghost. He can help us to truly listen and will even whisper to our hearts what we truly need to hear for both our sakes and the sakes of others we are listening to.  

Walking outdoors with my sons one morning several years ago, I ran into an acquaintance who was hiking with her dogs.  She asked how my kids were doing and I thought it would be friendly to ask her in turn how her kids were doing. I had assumed that a woman of her age and disposition must have grown up kids and possibly even grandkids.  I immediately heard a voice in my head say "Please don't ask her that question!"  But I ignored that prompting and foolishly asked the question anyway.  This poor woman bent her head and explained how she had always wished for children of her own.  I didn't hear the Lord's voice the first time, but oh how he pierced my heart with this humble woman's words.  I realized then just how deeply God loves his children.  He tries to help us not offend others by whispering ever so gently to be kind to others.

In closing I'd like to mention how Elder Russell M. Nelson spoke tenderly of the prophet Heber J. Grant's mother:
<quote>
While stressing the importance of listening well, I am mindful of those who cannot hear. Many labeled as deaf have received the Spirit “by the hearing of faith.” (Gal. 3:2.) The example of Rachel Ivins Grant is inspiring to me...Before her son, Heber J. Grant, became the seventh President of the Church, she declared, “Of course the greatest trial I have is that I cannot hear, but I have so many blessings I cannot complain, but if we only will live so that we may receive the instructions of God, there is nothing we are called to pass through but will be for our good.” 

The Redeemer loves such faithful souls: “For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers.” (1 Pet. 3:12.)

They qualify for this prophetic promise: “Before they call, I [the Lord] will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear” (Isa. 65:24).

To all of God’s children, either able to hear or deaf to mortal sound, He offers this reward: “Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live.” (Isa. 55:3.) 
</quote>

May we all listen to the Lord and recognize his voice as did Samuel, that faithful prophet of old is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.